Blog post: emberjs.com from RFC to website (#904)
simplabs/simplabs.github.io: _posts/2020-02-29-emberjs-website-rfc-to-launch.md

---
title: 'emberjs.com: from RFC to website'
author: 'Florian Pichler'
github: pichfl
twitter: pichfl
topic: design
bio: 'Consultant for Design & Technology'
description: 'Florian Pichler highlights details of the just released overhaul of the landing page for Ember.js, looking specifically at how a distributed team of volunteers can achieve consistent design.'
og:
  image: /assets/images/posts/2020-02-29-emberjs-website-rfc-to-launch/og-image.png
---

The new landing page for Ember.js is a big project.

Besides development, there is the task of converting the initial design mockup
that was made for [the RFC](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/425) back in
2018 into a full-featured design system with elements and components that can
be reused across the big universe for which the landing page is only the
doorway.

This post highlights some of the changes I proposed and made it to the final
website.

<!--break-->

## Side by side

> ![Side by side comparison of the original website mockup from the rfc and the final mockup created by me](/assets/images/posts/2020-02-29-emberjs-website-rfc-to-launch/before-after.jpg#full@680-1200-2761)

Reviewer: We can only have 2 sizes per image

Reviewer: Also the original version of this image has more than 4MB and we don't seem to be using it anyway.

Author: Fixed

---

> title: 'The little changes that helped to transform a RFC into emberjs.com'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 'The little changes that helped to transform an RFC into emberjs.com'
```

author: 'Florian Pichler'
github: pichfl
twitter: pichfl
topic: design
bio: 'Consultant for Design & Technology'
description: 'Florian Pichler highlights details of the just released overhaul of the landing page for Ember.js, looking specifically at how a distributed team of volunteers can achieve consistent design.'
og:
  image: /assets/images/posts/2020-02-29-emberjs-website-rfc-to-launch/og-image.png
---

The new landing page for Ember.js is a big project.

> Besides development, there is the task of converting the initial design mockup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Besides development, there was the task of converting the initial design mockup
```

?

that was made for [the RFC](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/425) back in
2018 into a full-featured design system with elements and components that can
be reused across the big universe for which the landing page is only the

> doorway.

Reviewer: Might be worth considering starting with a bit of prose describing the background? "In 2018 there was an RFC for updating the website, there was just a mockup for the website, we needed to turn this into a design system" and so on – currently it seems you're diving in directly but most readers will have none of the background info.

Author: Good point, will add something to explain where we started.

> doorway.

Author: I wanted to express that the landing page is only the starting point for most of the other parts of the website such as the docs, guides, etc. Not sure if this change will have the same meaning.

> This post highlights some of the changes I proposed and made it to the final

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This post highlights some of the changes I proposed and which made it to the final
```

website.

<!--break-->

## Side by side

> ![Side by side comparison of the original website mockup from the rfc and the final mockup created by me](/assets/images/posts/2020-02-29-emberjs-website-rfc-to-launch/before-after.jpg#full@1200-2761)

Reviewer 2: I think this would be

```suggestion
![Side by side comparison of the original website mockup from the RFC and the final mockup created by me](/assets/images/posts/2020-02-29-emberjs-website-rfc-to-launch/before-after.jpg#full@1200-2761)
```

> <small>You can also download a [full sized comparision, side by side](/assets/images/posts/2020-02-29-emberjs-website-rfc-to-launch/before-after-full.jpg). Be warned, it is nearly 5 MB.</small>

Reviewer: We cannot do this currently as this will end up in the bundle that the service worker preloads. You'd have to keep this outside of this repo.

Author: 😓 I guess I'll just remove it then, not sure where to put it otherwise.

## Large changes

> After discussion with the Learning team, the "Try out" section was removed.

Reviewer 2: I think it'd be

```suggestion
After a discussion with the Ember Learning Core team, the "Try out" section was removed.
```

There wasn't enough time left to create the section in a meaningful way and
it didn't communicate the real strengths of Ember.js.

We unfolded the tabs in the Batteries included section, so the core benefits of
Ember are visible right away. This gave us a chance to add playful
illustrations and lighten up the otherwise quite technical content.

## Little changes, big effort

### A new font for Ember.js

The font choice for the original RFC was lovely, and we are big fans of the

> Metric fonts by Klimt, but it was necessary to find a solution that is Open

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metric fonts by Klimt, but it was necessary to find a solution that is open
```

> Source and does not involve licensing costs. After testing eight or more other

Reviewer: ```suggestion
source and does not involve licensing costs. After testing eight or more other
```

> alternatives, we settled on an excellent Open Source font:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
alternatives, we settled on an excellent open source font:
```

![Font sample for Inter font](/assets/images/posts/2020-02-29-emberjs-website-rfc-to-launch/inter.png#@860-1720)

Meet [**Inter**](https://rsms.me/inter/), the new font representing Ember.js
typographically in written word. It is not only well suited and tailor-made for
user interfaces in general, but provides an exceptional range of cuts for all
applications. It is both friendly and has an earnest quality that balances well
against the playfulness of the Ember.js logo and mascots.

### Typography

The new website now has a typographic scale which provides not only a range of
font sizes and appropriate line spacings, but also includes harmonic offsets
that can be applied across the design, making it easy to add white space and
layout organization to any element on a page.

### Half a gradient of colors

![Slate gradient, Ember brand color with gradiated variations](/assets/images/posts/2020-02-29-emberjs-website-rfc-to-launch/colors.png#@860-1720)

The RFC mockup introduces a new slate color to mark a new era for Ember. The
Ember red represents the community. The new slate stands for the
professionalism and strong foundation in quality. In short, they are meant to

> symbolize that Ember's strength is represented by an amazing community and is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
symbolize that Ember's strength is lies in its amazing community and its
```

> there for business.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reliability for businesses.
```

?

As you might have noticed, we are still lacking secondary colors, which are not

> settled yet and will become part of the second run of changes to the Ember.js

Reviewer 2: I think it'd be something like

```suggestion
settled yet and will become part of the second pass of changes to the Ember.js
```

website ecosystem.

## Style guide

Having a mockup is nice, but it doesn't solve the complex task of building a
theater of pages and small web apps which in total represents the online
presence of Ember. We now have a living breathing style guide, which is both an
ember-cli addon that can be consumed by the website and all the adjacent
projects, but also live documentation that can be viewed online and, no
surprise, is an Ember application itself, thanks to the magic of
[empress][empress] and [ember-styleguide][ember-styleguide].

[empress]: https://github.com/empress/field-guide
[ember-styleguide]: https://github.com/ember-learn/ember-styleguide/pull/145

### CSS

> Beyond the purely visual aspecs of the design, I also introduced some

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Beyond the purely visual aspects of the design, I also introduced some
```

lightweight CSS helpers for things like spacing, font sizes, grid and layout.

> Some of them were inspired by [Tailwind](), while others are explicitly narrow

Reviewer 2: I think this still misses a link to the docs or the Github repo:

```suggestion
Some of them were inspired by [Tailwind](xxxxx), while others are explicitly narrow
```

in their options to ensure overall consistency and to make them easier for
contributors of the website to work with. Take a look at the
[styleguide preview][styleguide-preview] to learn more about this.

[styleguide-preview]: https://deploy-preview-145--ember-styleguide.netlify.com/

## Thanks

> My allocated time donated by simplabs allowed me and others to bring the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Allocated time donated by simplabs allowed me and others to bring the
```

symbolize that Ember's strength lies in its an amazing community and reliability
for businesses.

As you might have noticed, we are still lacking secondary colors, which are not
settled yet and will become part of the second pass of changes to the Ember.js
website ecosystem.

## Style guide

Having a mockup is nice, but it doesn't solve the complex task of building a
theater of pages and small web apps which in total represents the online
presence of Ember. We now have a living breathing style guide, which is both an
ember-cli addon that can be consumed by the website and all the adjacent
projects, but also live documentation that can be viewed online and, no
surprise, is an Ember application itself, thanks to the magic of
[empress][empress] and [ember-styleguide][ember-styleguide].

[empress]: https://github.com/empress/field-guide
[ember-styleguide]: https://github.com/ember-learn/ember-styleguide/pull/145

The style guide provides both actual Ember components that can be applied to any
Ember project and a full set of CSS custom properties and helpers which make it
easy to create good looking pages from scratch.

> ![Examples for components created for the Ember Style Guide project](/assets/images/posts/2020-02-29-emberjs-website-rfc-to-launch/bcomponents.png#full@860-1720)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Examples for components created for the Ember Style Guide project](/assets/images/posts/2020-02-29-emberjs-website-rfc-to-launch/components.png#full@860-1720)
```

The typo results in a broken image: 

<img width="1295" alt="Bildschirmfoto 2020-02-28 um 18 13 42" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1510/75569811-20ab3580-5a56-11ea-9276-cac92276bada.png">

---
title: 'emberjs.com from RFC to website'
author: 'Florian Pichler'
github: pichfl
twitter: pichfl
topic: design
bio: 'Consultant for Design & Technology'
description: 'Florian Pichler highlights details of the just released overhaul of the landing page for Ember.js, looking at the very details that make it possible to have consistant design in a distributed team of volunteers.'
og:

>   image: /assets/images/posts/2020-02-29-emberjs-website-rfc-to-launch/og-image.png

Author: That would be the full res comparison which isn't linked anywhere. The og-image is <40k

---

> Shortly after I joined simplabs, Chris Manson (@mansona) approached me to become part of the team that was in charge of bringing the new landing page for Ember.js to fruition. Besides development, there also arose the rather critical task of converting the initial design mockup that was made for the RFC years ago into an actual page and design components that can be reused across the big universe for which the landing page is only the doorway. This post highlights some of the changes I proposed and made it to the final website.

Author: I removed that sentence, it wasn't a good start anyway.

<!--break-->

## Side by side

> ![Side by side comparison of the original website mockup from the rfc and the final mockup created by me](/assets/images/posts/2020-02-29-emberjs-website-rfc-to-launch/before-after.jpg)

Reviewer: let's use `srcset` here – see https://github.com/simplabs/simplabs.github.io/blob/master/_posts/2020-01-31-how-to-over-engineer-a-static-page.md for examples
